
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# namer

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Lifecycle:
stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-stable-brightgreen.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#stable)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/jumpingrivers/namer/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jumpingrivers/namer/actions)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/namer)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=namer)
[![Codecov test
coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/jumpingrivers/namer/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/jumpingrivers/namer?branch=main)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/jumpingrivers/namer/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jumpingrivers/namer/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of {namer} is to name the chunks of R Markdown files. It’s your
safety net when you’ve (willingly) forgotten to name most chunks of all
R Markdown files in a folder. {namer} does *not* give meaningful labels
to your chunks, but it gives them labels that won’t change depending on
their position like the automatic `knitr:::unnamed_chunk` function does
when knitting. So you can e.g. shuffle your chunks and not loose their
cache, or more easily debug over a whole folder!

For context about *why* you should name your R Markdown chunks, read
[this blog post](https://masalmon.eu/2017/08/08/chunkpets/).

The screenshot below is [a real life
example](https://github.com/lockedata/pres-datascience/pull/1/), result
of running `namer::name_dir_chunks("pres")`. In each of the files in the
dir “pres”, it labelled chunks using the filename and numbers.

[![Example of
use](man/figures/screenshot.png)](https://github.com/lockedata/pres-datascience/pull/1/files/)

## Use

This is a basic example which shows you how to solve a common problem.
The “test” folder first contains R Markdown files with unnamed chunks.
After running `name_dir_chunks`, they’re all named, with names using the
filenames as basis.

``` r
fs::dir_copy(system.file("examples", package = "namer"),
            "test")
name_dir_chunks("test")
file.edit("test/example1.Rmd")
```

There’s also `name_chunks()` for use on a single R Markdown file; and
`unname_chunks()` to unname all chunks of a single R Markdown file as
well as `unname_dir_chunks()` to unname all chunks of all R Markdown
files in a directory, which can be useful when cleaning your chunk
labels.

By default `unname_chunks()` unnames all chunks with exception of the
‘setup’ chunk. By using the argument `chunk_name_prefix` one can
indicate the prefix of the labels that will be unnamed. Useful when one
refers to a label by using chunk option `ref.label` so that it is
inconvenient when that label is unnamed. By setting `chunk_name_prefix`
equal to ‘the filename with extension stripped’ followed with a ‘-’
(dash) only the labels generated by `name_chunks()` will be unnamed.

If you’re working with RStudio, installing the package will have
installed an addin for labelling chunks of *any R Markdown document you
select*.

**When using {namer}, please check the edits before pushing them to your
code base. Such automatic chunk labelling is best paired with [version
control](https://happygitwithr.com/).**

## Installation

Install {namer} from CRAN

``` r
install.packages("namer")
```

Or get the dev version from this repo using:

``` r
remotes::install_github("jumpingrivers/namer")
```

## Code of Conduct

Please note that the namer project is released with a [Contributor Code
of Conduct](https://jumpingrivers.github.io/namer/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html).
By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Maintained by [Jumping Rivers](https://www.jumpingrivers.com)
